## Vinyl Rip - Air Force A Portrait in Sound
…and we’re back. Sorry for the long hiatus between posts—I’ve actually (read: finally!) been working on my dissertation, which has meant listening to and digitizing a ton of weird old records. In the section I just finished, I situate public reactions to the sonic boom within broader auditory cultures of the 1950s and 1960s, including hi-fi stereo culture, the science of psychoacoustics, and the developing environmental movement. One of the things I focus on are audio “demonstrations,” including Air Force demonstrations of fighter jets and sonic booms, and so-called “demonstration records,” which were meant to showcase home stereo equipment and help people calibrate their gear. These things intersect in the jet airplane record, which was essentially a sub-genre of hi-fi records.

The Air Force itself was involved in the production of some of these records, including the 1957 Vox album *United States Air Force: A Portrait in Sound*, produced by Ward Botsford. In the liner notes, Botsford tells the story of approaching Air Force brass: “When I approached the Air Force my idea was just for a good old-fashioned Hi-Fi record,” he wrote. “When I got through talking—and listening—I found the Air Force ready, willing, and able to help me…since one of the greatest public relations problems in the Air Force happens to be sound.” So instead of an “old-fashioned Hi-Fi record,” what Botsford ends up making is an pro-Air Force propaganda record.

To convey this message, Botsford enlists the help of Arthur Godfrey, a well-known radio broadcaster and aviation enthusiast who often used his airtime to discuss his love of airplanes. With Godfrey as the narrator, Botsford uses his microphones to create a sonically dense audio essay that attempts to retell the entire history of flight. The album opens on a beach, seagulls circulating in the stereo field, while Godfrey begins his dramatic narration: “Anyone who has taken a few quiet moments to watch the graceful and almost effortless flight of the seagull knows, or should know, why man had to fly.” As the gulls caw in the background, Godfrey continues: “Men solved the mysteries of flight, not with the beauty of birds, but with the majesty of power. Man, in creating powered flight, leaves a trail of sounds. Sounds that easily identify his every step of progress.”

Check out the sounds of “progress” by downloading [this zip file][1]. I included *Air Force: A Portrait in Sound* (including liner notes) as well as *Air Force: Sounds of America’s Air Defense in Action!* (Riverside, 1958).


[1]:	http://fieldnoise.com/audio/air_force_portrait.zip