## Workflow Comment for Annette
Hi Annette and all,

Thanks for starting this conversation. I'm a workflow nut, and have used pretty much all of the tools that we're discussing here. Let me start by saying DevonThink Pro Office is a super powerful tool, which is probably why it is so expensive: it does OCR to make PDFs searchable, and can index and cross-refernece files, but I've actually stopped using it for some of the reasons you mention: cost, lack of citation management, weird sync options, etc. There are ways to work around these, but I always find myself creating more headaches.  Let me breakdown how I do things, using mostly free or low-cost software.

1) Install Zotfile for Zotero. I'm suprised no one has mentioned this yet, but it allows you to store your PDF attachments in any old folder and create links to those files in Zotero, without moving the unneccesary files in Zotero's main database and creating bizarre folder hierarchies. For a library like yours, getting this process up and running will be very time consuming, but it is all automated: let Zotfile run overnight and you should be good.

2) Point Zotfile to a folder in your Dropbox (a new one, not the one they are currently in), and choose how you want your files to be named. Then select your whole database, option+click, and choose "Manage Attachments -\> Rename Attachments" This is the part that  will take a VERY long time.

3) Point your iPad app of choice that has two-way sync capabilities to this new folder. iAnnotate is fantastic (superior to Goodreader IMO), but I think the app ReaddleDocs is kind of underappreciated. It has less features for PDF markup, but has a way cleaner interface, I think.

4) Because your files are now symbolically linked, you can just push changes to your Dropbox folder when done working with them on your iPad (iAnnotate and ReaddleDocs can both do this without syncing your whole folder). As long as you don't change the file names, Zotero will always automatically call up the new files when you click on them.

Once the initial set-up of this workflow is done, you're basically keeping everything in sync through Dropbox. You can try it with a few files at first before deciding to commit, obviously! I'd be happy to provide more details if needed. Sorry this "comment" is already so long!